Grown sans pesticides and insecticides, organic dry fruits are healthier option when compared to the conventional ones. The drying process is very much similar to the form used in the conventional dry fruits. Since organic form of farming doesn’t use any kind of chemicals during the cultivation as fertilizers or pesticides it is far healthier than the usual ones. There are several health benefits of organic over the conventional form of food. Few of the benefits are mentioned below:
Minimal Artificial Content
Organic food doesn’t contain much artificial or harmful content as it is grown using all natural inputs which assures there is nothing inconsumable or deteriorating in it. It contains more nutrition and goodness comparative to the conventional dry fruits. Even after the drying process the concentration of chemicals doesn’t reduce much. It might lead to severe effect on health conditions gradually if not immediately.  
Rich in Fiber
Dry fruits are rich in fiber, especially the organic ones as they alone can compensate for the daily required dose. High amount of fiber helps to stay full for longer and in return keeps diet in check. Fiber content is very essential for digestion and keeps check on proper working of digestive system.   
Nutrient content is high
Organic dry fruits are high in nutrition and are filled with minerals and vitamins. The essential supplies required for the human body is completely packed in these nuts and fruits. As the fruits are dried they become more condense in the nutritional content. These are high in proteins, vitamins, antioxidants and minerals like manganese, folate, thiamine, copper, phosphorous, iron, potassium and many other beneficial contents. 
Maintains good health
As organic nuts and fruits are intact with lots of nutrients it helps in maintaining good health. A handful of walnuts, almonds or cashew nuts or a mixture of all would provide a great deal of vitamins and minerals required for the body. This keeps one full and helps in staying away from junk foods which are high in sodium and fat content. It can be a great option for mid-afternoon snack and give instant energy instead of reaching for high sugar or caffeine. Organic dry fruit snacking option is not just healthy but also satisfies the craving to have sweet or salty unhealthy snacks. 
It also gives a good feeling when one brings in these organic dry fruits for the family as it is a great step towards healthy lifestyle.  It helps in reducing weight and other illness which occurs due to nutrition deficiencies. 
Large Variety
Organic was new theme few years ago and there was not much range available in it and was also quite costly to afford. Today there is a wide variety of foods available under the organic category. Owing to the widespread availability even the prices have come down. So go organic and get the healthiest food for your family. 
